Dear Debian, SuSE, RedHat and other maintainers


Building:
---------
The current source packages *should* build (i.e. "make") without problems if
the prerequisites are met (see chapter 'Installation' of the MIRA manual). If
not, please contact me directly to get the problem resolved asap.


Installation:
-------------
A "make install" *should* install binaries, manual pages and additional data
files in the correct place. If not, please contact me directly.


Documentation / manual pages:
-----------------------------

Some short, basic manual pages are present in the ./man directory for the
different flavours of the MIRA binary (mira, miraconvert, mirabait, etc.). You
should never need to rebuild them, but in case you do: have MIRA built
("make"), then use "make manpages" from the top directory (or "make -C man
manpages").

The main documentation is present in docbook format (./doc/docbook directory)
which builds as HTML and PDF. However, the prerequisite dependencies are
pretty heavy (dblatex etc.). Therefore, a simple "make install" will NOT
install the full HTML and PDF documentation but just the manpages.

To build and install the full HTML and PDF documentation, please use "make
docinstall" from the top directory (or "make -C doc/docbook install").

At minimum, xsltproc need to be present for HTML files. If dblatex is present
and functional, PDFs will also be built.


Database files:
---------------
Since 4.9.6, both the MIRA source and binary packages come with a gzip
compressed database extract of the RFAM rRNA database. This file is located
in src/other/sls/rfam_rrna-21-1.sls.gz in the source code release and in
"dbdata" in the binary releases.

This file is approximately 14 megabytea in size and will change every once
in a while to reflect new releases of RFAM. Depending on how the rules are for
adding that file to source code repositories in use by your project (CVS,
subversion, git, etc), you may or may not want to add this file to your system.

If it is of any help to you: I haven't added that file to my git (which holds
MIRA), but it is kept outside and gets copied in while building source and
binary releases of the package.


Bastien
