Big thanks to

Sandor Suhai, Karl-Heinz Glatting and Frieder Kern from the german cancer
research centre (DKFZ Heidelberg) who made the release of MIRA as Open Source
possible. Thomas Pfisterer who agreed to also release his EdIt package to Open
Source.

Jose Blanca wrote the initial sff_extract script to extract and pre-process
data from SFFs.

People who wrote scripts for MIRA and made allowed me to make them publicly
available as 3rd party scripts: Jacqueline Weber-Lehmann, Stephen Taylor, Ross
Whettten, Gregory Harhay


Furthermore, I would like to thank

Bernd Drescher     for support, talks and tests of the earliest MIRA. He
                    actually intiated this project at the DKFZ.
Matthias Platzert  testing out the earliest versions of MIRA
Gerald Nyakatura   testing out the earliest versions of MIRA
James Bonfield     for helpful tips on how to make MIRA output compatible to
                    the Staden gap4 program.
Norman Warthmann   suggesting features for miraEST
Paul Bickerstaff   for pushing early miraEST to the limits and actually
                    sending me the first MIRA postcard ever :-)
Alexander Kuehn    helping out with HP Testdrive to get MIRA compiled there
Randolf Schulz     finding the Apple linker error and (a solution to it) that
                    prevented compiling MIRA on Darwin / MacOS X
Jacqueline Weber   for helping in finding out about the 454 adapter
                    sequences and thoroughly testing the 454 assemblies
Gerrit Schramm     from Roche in helping me out to understand some of the less
                    well known things regarding the 454 sequencing system
Hernandez Alvarez
   Alfredo Jose    providing patches to have MIRA compile again on Solaris
Lionel Guy         implementing bug fixes in sff_extract and making available
                    data sets to hunt down some ugly bugs in MIRA
Sven Klages        for insightful feedback and providing a fix for the ACE
                    file format of tags
Steven Cozza       Helping to iron out problems in the build process on
                    OpenSolaris
Heng Li            For having made available to everyone interested routines
                    to load FASTQ.
Thomas Vaughan     For an explanation on how to compile on NetBSD 5 (i386)
Liam Elbourne      For finding out the cause which prevented MIRA to link
 and                correctly on Mac OSX systems (the linker prefers system
Peter Stockwell     libraries over specific libraries)
David P. Judge     being the first to actually fix a dumb bug of mine in MIRA
Bob Bruccoleri	   finding and sending fixes for problems in the configure
                    build process as well as other patches, suggestions and
		    test cases
Jorge Duarte       from BIOGEMMA for making available test sets to track down
                    memory corruption bugs
Dag Ahren	   making available a test set to track down a rather nasty
                    problem occurring during clipping
Jan van Haarst	   Running benchmarks over NFS to find poorly performing
                    input/output routines
Peter Cock         Invaluable feedback for implementing SAM format and
                    pointing out bugs, small and large
Debian Med team    For patches and packaging MIRA so that it is available for
                    Debian and all distributions based on Debian. Especially
		    Andreas Tille, Thorsten Alteholz and Michael R. Crusoe

... and numerous people on the mira_talk mailing list who reported successes,
bugs and/or quirks either in the build process or while running mira.


My warmest thanks to Bob Bruccoleri, Lionel Guy, Arun Rawat, Nestor Zaburannyi
and numerous other people who either declined being thanked publicly or could
not respond before I wrote this (just drop me a mail). They all donated time
and computing power to hunt down a "bug" which turned out to be a RAM defect
on my development machine.
